Models

Warning: Gemini 3 Pro Preview is deprecated and will be shut down March 9, 2026. Migrate to Gemini 3.1 Pro Preview to avoid service disruption.
Gemini 3
Gemini 3.1 Pro

Advanced intelligence, complex problem-solving skills, and powerful agentic and vibe coding capabilities.

New Preview
Gemini 3 Flash

Frontier-class performance rivaling larger models at a fraction of the cost.

Preview
Gemini 3.1 Flash-Lite

Frontier-class performance rivaling larger models at a fraction of the cost.

New Preview
🍌🍌
Nano Banana 2

Powerful, high-efficiency image generation and editing, optimized for speed and high-volume use cases.

Preview
🍌
Nano Banana Pro

State-of-the-art image generation and editing models for highly contextual native image creation.

Preview
Gemini 3 Pro

Our state-of-the-art reasoning model, with advanced multimodal understanding.

Discontinuing
Gemini 2.5 Flash
Gemini 2.5 Flash

Our best price-performance model for low-latency, high-volume tasks that require reasoning.
Nano Banana

State-of-the-art native image generation and editing designed for fast, creative workflows.
Gemini 2.5 Flash Live Preview

Optimized for real-time conversational agents with sub-second native audio streaming.
Gemini 2.5 Flash TTS Preview

Controllable text-to-speech audio generation with fine control over style and pacing.
Gemini 2.5 Flash-Lite
Gemini 2.5 Flash-Lite

The fastest and most budget-friendly multimodal model in the 2.5 family.
Gemini 2.5 Pro
Gemini 2.5 Pro

Our most advanced model for complex tasks, featuring deep reasoning and coding capabilities.
Gemini 2.5 Pro TTS Preview

High-fidelity speech synthesis optimized for quality in structured workflows like podcasts and audiobooks.
Audio models

This section contains all audio models, including ones that may already be listed in other sections
Gemini 2.5 Flash Live Preview

Our flagship Live API model for low-latency, bidirectional voice and video agents with native audio reasoning.
Gemini 2.5 Flash TTS Preview

Fast and controllable text-to-speech for low-latency, cost-efficient applications and real-time assistants.
Gemini 2.5 Pro TTS Preview

High-fidelity speech synthesis optimized for quality in structured workflows like podcasts and audiobooks.
Lyria Experimental

High-fidelity music generation model providing granular creative control over instruments, BPM, and complex compositions.
Generative media models

This section contains all generative media models, including ones that may already be listed in other sections
Veo 3.1 Preview

State-of-the-art cinematic video generation with advanced creative controls and natively synchronized audio.
Nano Banana Pro Preview

A professional design engine with a reasoning core for studio-quality 4K visuals, complex layouts, and precise text rendering.
Nano Banana

State-of-the-art native image generation and editing designed for fast, creative workflows.
Lyria Experimental

High-fidelity music generation model providing granular creative control over instruments, BPM, and complex compositions.
Imagen 4

Text-to-image model yet, featuring fast and ultra-fast generation and exceptional clarity up to 2K resolution.
Tool and agent models
Computer Use Preview

A specialized model that can "see" a digital screen and perform UI actions like clicking, typing, and navigating to automate complex browser tasks.
Gemini Deep Research Preview

An agentic model that autonomously plans and executes multi-step research across hundreds of sources to produce cited, interactive reports.
Specialized task models
Gemini Embeddings

High-dimensional vector representations for advanced semantic search, text classification, and RAG systems.
Gemini Robotics Preview

Advanced embodied reasoning model that understands physical spaces and plans multi-step tasks for robotic agents.
Previous models
These models are deprecated and will be shut down soon; migrate to Gemini 2.5 for improved performance.
Gemini 2.0 Flash Deprecated

Our second generation workhorse model, with next-gen features and improved capabilities, including superior speed, native tool use, and a 1M token context window.
Gemini 2.0 Flash-Lite Deprecated

Our fastest second generation model, optimized for cost efficiency and low latency.
Model version name patterns

Gemini models are available in either stable, preview, latest, or experimental versions.
Note: The following list refers to the model string naming convention as of September, 2025. Models released prior to that may have different naming conventions. Refer to the exact model string if you are using an older model.
Stable

Points to a specific stable model. Stable models usually don't change. Most production apps should use a specific stable model.

For example: gemini-2.5-flash.
Preview

Points to a preview model which may be used for production. Preview models will typically have billing enabled, might come with more restrictive rate limits and will be deprecated with at least 2 weeks notice.

For example: gemini-2.5-flash-preview-09-2025.
Latest

Points to the latest release for a specific model variation. This can be a stable, preview or experimental release. This alias will get hot-swapped with every new release of a specific model variation. A 2-week notice will be provided through email before the version behind latest is changed.

For example: gemini-flash-latest.
Experimental

Points to an experimental model which will typically be not be suitable for production use and come with more restrictive rate limits. We release experimental models to gather feedback and get our latest updates into the hands of developers quickly.

Experimental models are not stable and availability of model endpoints is subject to change.
Model deprecations
For information about model deprecations, visit the Gemini deprecations page.